I'm happy with the state
our application reached. You can always do more, change more, edit more
but I'm very happy with both our back-end and front-end
but there's one thing I still want to do. Right now,
we have some redundancy in our code, like for example that URL in the posts service.
If that would change for some reason, we need to change it in all these places,
now that's certainly possible but not optimal.
We also for example have a setting in the app.js
file on the back-end, this password. If that changes we have to visit this file and edit it here
and if our app was deployed already, it means we have to edit our source code and redeploy,
even though just some configuration changed.
So this is something we can probably handle a bit more elegant, by the way
the same is true for our secret
we use for creating a token.
We store it here in the user.js file and in the check-auth file.
I want to manage these things with global settings,
so let's implement this step-by-step and let's start on the front-end in Angular with this URL.
Of course we can easily manage this globally, we could add a new constant outside of our class here which
I'll name BACKEND_URL, all caps to make clear that is is a constant, a file-wide constant
and then I just grab that
URL here, put it in here and now all the places where I used this URL,
I just use BACKEND_URL instead.
So I use that here and I use that here
and so on. So we replace it everywhere and we can do that here since we always have that same URL,
if it differs of course, you have to adjust it.
So now this is better,
now the app should work as it did before and it does
but we're managing this in a global place. Now we don't just use that
URL in the posts service though,
well we use that exact URL there
but in the auth service, we have the same domain at least. We have a different ending thereafter, we have
API user instead of API post
but the domain and even the API part is part of every URL we have,
so we can probably enhance this a bit more.
We could add a global configuration file where we have this common trunk which we import into both the
auth service and the posts service and then we just add /posts or /users after this trunk
to build the URL as we need it. Now
thankfully, we got an even better way with the help of the Angular CLI. There
we get this environments folder in the CLI project where we have the environment.ts file
and here we can set up so-called environment variables.
This means these are global variables which we can import in our files and we can even change them
for the production and development mode because in our case here even, we have that URL in development
but we will not deploy our app on localhost,
so this gives us a convenient way of always getting the right URL for both cases, developing
on our local machine where we want to have a localhost domain and for the deployed app when we build
it for production where we want to have the URL of our, well server where we are deploying it to.
So we can now adjust our code even more
and we take that common trunk,
so the domain and API and put it into that environment folder here.
There we can simply add a new key,
for example apiurl which is a string which holds this trunk
and now we just import that into the files where we're interested, like in the posts service. There I
can still construct my file-wide constant but I will also add an import, I'll import this environment object
which is exported in the environments folder and there in the environment file to be precise.
I'm importing this and now I can construct my BACKEND_URL by using environment apiurl and
then posts and I will copy that and go to the auth service and I will add it there
too. Now one adjustment,
I don't need the post model here but I need that environment import and my BACKEND_URL here simply
has /users,
/user I mean. So /user
and now we can grab that BACKEND_URL and again, replace the parts that need to be replaced.
So here, I would actually say BACKEND_URL plus /signup and down there, it would be
BACKEND_URL plus /login.
And now again, the app should still work fine.
If I do log-out and try that login again, this seems to be working,
deleting does not work though.
The reason for that really just is that I got an error in my delete route
now, if I go down,
I need to add a slash here or to be precise,
I can simply add that slash at the top after posts and also I could do the same for auth service at the
top after user. Just to be safe that whenever I need to attach some information after that part, I already
have that slash in there which is required to build a correct URL. Now deleting works again.
So now we're managing this globally which is a great first step. In the next lecture, we'll have a look
at how we can do the same for the back-end.